# Jenkins Troubleshooting

## Jenkins Logs
-   Take a look at Log generated by the jenkins and plugins via
    - http://jenkins-master/log
    - tail -f in 100 /var/log/jenkins/jenkins.log

-   Make sure your Jenkins & installed plugins version is installed with most uptodate stable release.

## Some Common issues:
-   Site is down with no 404 messages
    - Cause- Jenkins had an Out of Memory (OOM) error causing the server to kill the jenkins instance
    - Solution: Restart server

# Jenkins Tips
## How to unlock Jenkins
-   When installing Jenkins, a password is generated and in order to manage Jenkins you have to get it
-   To unlock Jenkins, means to find the admin password and connect for the first time to it.
-   In order to get the password, under Linux you must have root rights
-   One time you get the password you can use it to connect to the Jenkins console.
-   At the beginning it is a good thing to change the admin password.

## Reset password
-   Disable Jenkins Security
    - Log onto your Jenkins server using an account with root privileges.
    - Open Jenkin’s configration XML file into a text editor.
      - sudo vi /var/lib/jenkins/config.xml
    - Set false to string - useSecurity
    - Save and close the file
    - Restart Jenkins
      - sudo systemctl restart jenkins
  - Reset Jenkins Admin’s Password
    - After Jenkins restarts navigate to the web console
    - Notice that you were not prompted for a username or password
    - This is because we disabled security in Jenkins’ configuration file.
    - To reset admin’s password, do the following
          - Click on People on the left-hand navigation menu.
          - Click on the Admin.
          - Delete the user account.
          - Navigate to Jenkins / Manage Jenkins.
          - Click on Configure Global Security
          - Check the Enable Security check box
          - Under Security Realm, select Jenkins’ own user database
          - In the Authorization section, select Logged-in users can do anything.
          - Unselect Allow anonymous read access.
          - Click Save to save your changes.
  - Create New Jenkins Admin User
    - Once you have completed the tasks above, you will be redirect to a page where a new Admin user can be created
    - Fill in your new details and then click Create First Admin User
    - You have now created a new Admin user with a new password
